---
title: 《计算机科学导论》
date: 2023-10-16 07:31:58
cover: false
toc_number: false
tags:
- books
categories: 'books'
typora-root-url: 《计算机科学导论》
---

> forth edition

# Introduction

## Turing Model

what computer model can be described?

- a basic data processor
  - input data
  - computer
  - output data

basic data process can only handle specific computation, we need genneral model

- a general data processor (a programmable data processor)
  - input data
  - computer
  - a program, a set of instructions that tells computer what to do with data
  - output data

This is turing model. It can do same thing with modern computer, if it has same input and same program

# Number System
## Introduction
A number system defines how a nubmer can be rrepresented using distinct symbols. 

## Positional Number System
The postion a symbol occupies  in the number determines the value it represents

## NoPositional Number System
Still uses a limited number of  symbols in which number of symbols in which each symbol has a value. However, the position a symbol occupies in the number normally bears no relation ot its value.

# Data Storage
As discussed before, a computer is a programmable data processing machine. Before 
we can talk about processing data, we need to understand the nature of data. 

## Data Types
Data today come in different forms including numbers, text, audio, images, and video
### Data inside the computer
All data types are transformed into a uniform representation when they are stored in a 
computer and transformed back to their original form when retrieved. This universal 
representation is called a bit pattern

**Bits**

A bit represents the state of a device that can take one of two states. 
For example, a switch can be on or off.

**Bit patterns**

To represent different types of data, we use a bit pattern, a sequence, or as it is 
sometimes called, a string of bits. 



# Operating Systems

## Introduction



## Evolution



## Components

A modern operating system has at least four duties: memory manager, process manager, device manager, and file manager.

Like many organizations that have a department that is not necessarily under any specific manager, an operating system also has such a component, 

which is usually called a user interface or a shell. The user interface is responsible for communication outside the operating system. 

## A Survey of Operating Systems











